Oh, my goodness.
Yeah. Let's see. Did your wife begin teaching
then? She taught the next fall, fall of 1956. She
taught the second grade for seven years and then
moved up to high school. She was real fortunate.
She had her degree in French and Spanish And, of
course, taught the second grade. She went to LSU
one semester to take elementary because it looks
like she was going to teach in Baton Rouge, and she
needed a teacher's certificate in Louisiana. And
then we came on back, and so fortunately, that's
what happened. All right, back to your teaching.
Did you feel that the electrical engineering
department have provided the facilities, the
laboratory equipment that were appropriate when
you got here? For what we were doing then, yeah. You
had two machinery labs, and on the third floor you
had electronics. The second floor they had that
IBM 650, which they put in there. They also had a
network analyzer, a network calculator, which
was furnished by the utilities. And this is how
they run their transmission problems on there.
And so this was about it. And of course, there's
only one PhD in the whole department then. And that
was a hallmark. None of the rest of them had PhDs. Ed
Andrews came back from, he had his, Ed Andrew was
the first one to walk across the strage in G. Wally
White. And he got his Ph.D., and Andrew was the
first one. I'd like to have gotten a picture of that
last one to go across and let her have a picture of
him.
Can you help me understand in the 30-some-odd
years you've taught, how the program changed in
electrical engineering. Well, they're
unrecognizable now, of course. John Paul German,
of course, he came here to teach field theory and
this sort of thing, and so the real explosion came
with the integrated circuit, with the transistor
and this sort of thing. When was that? Of course,
the transistor discrete components were in use by
then. We didn't run any experiments except with
vacuum tubes by then. And of course, the IBM 650 had
4,000 memory storage locations. And of course,
that was the only computer on the campus. And then
of course, they built the data processing center
down where they put in the 709 and this sort of
thing. But it's just unbelievable the change that
occurred. Who were the people who deserve special
mention as helping to get those changes
accomplished? Are there some deans or some
department heads or faculty members? In
electrical engineering? That deserve special
mention?
Recently or what? Any time during those. Who were
the people that made the difference? Back in those
days? Well,
of course, they were all good undergraduate
teachers and some graduate, but people like John,
Walt Mattson, he left. And then Mike Reckoff, he
just died. He was one of the new ones that had gone
off. A fellow named Ed Andrews, who left later, he
later died.
It's really, really hard to say. Calhoun comes as
dean, and then Benson. Oh, yeah. How did they
summarize them, describe their work as deans? Of
course, I guess Benson was the dean when I went on to
the faculty, and pretty soon after that, John
Calhoun came.
Well, he was dean, too. I don't know how that works
in. I think Calhoun was first, and then he moved to
the system level. He moved on up, and then Benson
became the dean. Of course, I think the greatest
thing about A&M is the strong administration. the
presidents and the deans and the department
heads, everybody knew where they stood, more or
less. And of course, I think Rutter was probably
the greatest of all. Why do you think? Because he
brought us kicking and screaming into the 20th
century. He was able to keep the former students
happy and the faculty happy and also the students.
to get us up into the 20th. And here, he had just a
Bachelor of Science. Everybody scared of him.
Like he said, he said, you know, Highway 6 runs in
both directions. And one of the faculty members,
they came by and resigned.
I tell people over and over, only Earl Rudder could
have made those basic changes. Then Jack Williams
was a great blessing that he could build on those
changes. That if you reverse them, they both pay.
Were you aware, as a faculty member, of any
specific judgments or decisions that President
Rudder made or that Jack Williams made that
affected engineering?
I don't know. I don't know of any. I don't either.
How did you and other and your colleagues react to
co-education and non-compulsory core to those
changes? Well, of course, I think we were all
pretty much in favor of it. I know my own son, he was
born here, but He had already made up his mind to go
to the University of Texas, even though it became
voluntary.
And so I was in President Rutter's office one day,
and Fred was working at the 40 Acres Club. And he
says, I see Fred has gone to the University of
Texas. Why didn't he go to A&M? Well, I had to
explain it to him, more or less like an excuse. I
always said, well, I'm glad I had tenure anyway.
Yeah. Did, as you recall your classes, do you
remember any
kinds of unusual events over a woman being in class
or a black student being in class? Well, of course,
we co-educated and black at the same time. But we
had a number of wives of students. And this yell
leader was in this class. And she was in there. And
he was very nasty about her and all that stuff. She
kind of straightened him out. But this is back.
Here's a purebred Aggie that just resented it
badly. But in general, I don't know of anything
particular about it. If we had had a faculty
referendum on, the whole faculty, on
co-education, non-compulsory core, racial
integration, higher admission requirements,
what do you think the vote would have been? Back in
those days? Which one would they prefer? No, no,
no. Would they have voted for any of those, all of
those? I don't know that they would. Let's see. I
believe that the average faculty member would
have voted for most of those, if not all. And Mr.
Rutter said to me privately, he said, I didn't need
a faculty referendum because I assumed the
faculty favored all of those.
Do you remember any racial
events? The only one I remember is a a young black
fellow who was on active duty and was sent here as an
undergraduate student. And I advised him and so
forth. And then I discovered he had been
transferred out to New Mexico or someplace. And so
I asked why he left. And he said, well, he was
married to a white woman. And they just, you know,
pressure on me. This is the only occurrence I
remember. We really didn't have hardly any blacks
in there, but the ones we had, I remember, did okay.
Now, as women began to major in engineering, did
they handle the work academically as well as the
men did? The what? Were their grades as high? The
women? Oh, I loved them. I think it was much better.
And I think they were very comparable. I can't
distinguish at all whether they did any worse or
better or this sort of thing. In all of your years as
a faculty member, can you share any anecdotes
about any pranks or teasings or good bull that
students ever attempted on you or any other
faculty member? No, I can't really. No students
played any trick on you? No tricks. What was your
nickname? I didn't have one. I can't remember that
I did. I never heard of one. They were abandoned, I
think, by the time I started teaching. For one
thing, the students were so scattered. It wasn't
like when we were eating and living and going to
class together that we all more or less got
nicknames. So that just has played out. Now, you
all moved from Bolton Hall to what? To Zachary when
it opened. We've been there ever since it opened.
What was it like? Describe that change. Well, of
course, I was kind of in charge of working with
Nash, the architect, and also the equipment we had
and the, the people furnishing equipment and this
sort of thing. And so I was involved in those
details. And also when the faculty member had some
kind of a question, they were supposed to come
through me and I would try to get an answer from Nash
or what else it was. So. Did, was that architect and
his staff, were they sensitive to the suggestions
that you made? Oh, I think so, yeah. I didn't hear
much. One was worried about getting his equipment
up to the floor. He didn't think the elevator was
big enough. So I went over and measured it, and it
had a back door, too. So it worked out all right. He
was really worried about getting his equipment up
there. Now, let's see. Dan Benson was dean in those
days, right? Oh, yeah. Describe him. Make believe
that I had never met him. Describe him in
personality and style. Fred Benson? Well, of
course, I've known him all along while he was dean.
I even went to talk to him about a job, and he
referred me to the department and so forth. But he
certainly was a strong dean. There was one man that
he got rid of. The students complained to me about
the fact that he was downgrading the school and all
that sort of thing. And so I said, well, you've got
to go talk to the dean about him and let him know. And
what Benson did was give him, supervised his
research and so forth, and found he was really
liking it. And this is the way he was able to get rid
of him, which is pretty hard to do in a tenured
faculty. But I thought he ran a tall ship and had
good administrators with him and everything. Did
he earn the trust of the faculty? Oh, I think very
much so. Mm-hmm. Oh, Page now, he didn't do such a
good job, I don't think. I'm not sure why. I was not
up in that area where they knew about that. I was
thinking the other day, there ought to be some
engineering facility on this campus named in
honor of Fred Benson. He earned that, I think.
Well, let's see. Let's try to kind of draw this near
an end. What has it meant to you in your life that you
went to Texas A&M as a student? As a student? What
did your coming here, instead of going somewhere
else, What has been, what is the meaning of it?
Well, I have no doubt I came to the right place. I
feel like the relationships that I developed with
my fellow students and the faculty and the more or
less focus that we had on an education and of course
the athletics is a part of it, but I just feel like
out of 52 in the class of 45 that left here in orders,
52 of them, all in the Signal Corps, and they said
report to Camp Beauregard at your own expense. And
they didn't get to finish until after the war. And
after 50 years, I got 27 of them to come back. Some of
them had not come back after the war, but they came
back anyway. So I think this type of loyalty you
have, I think the university is unique. And also, I
feel like it has endured pretty well. And I feel
like they're still Aggies, they still want to come
here, and they have developed the esprit de corps
that we had not as much, of course, The classes are
too big and too scattered, but it's just a unique
school. What contributes to that spirit? Well,
they start out with freshman week. Of course, they
got that summer, and the freshman week is so
important, I think. And, of course, they have so
many things like the L practice and the student
bodies sitting together and this sort of thing.
Really, it's interesting that it still persists.
I know I talked to the woman in the Memorial Student
Center in the bookstore, and she had lived in
Austin, and then she was over here, and she just
noticed it, how it was so different from over at the
university. I've had a theory that these events
you mentioned, including Silver Taps and Luster
and Midnight Y'all Practice and all of those, that
they are inclusive. Male, female, core,
civilian, short, tall, rich, poor, country or
town. If you're one of us, come on and join. And then
the grand finale is commencement, where every
name is called, every hand is taken, that it is
inclusive instead of being exclusive. and that
that really helps. And that causes me to ask, did
you not, when you were a student or since then, were
you aware of any secret fraternities? Yes. So
secret, the only indication I had of this
apparently is when they decided to boycott the
Bryan Theaters. Apparently it came from that, but
it really... Do you know what the names of the
groups were? No, I never knew. It's so
insignificant, that's the only case I've ever
heard of that. What little I can find, apparently
the primary purpose of the one or more secret
fraternities was to get their own members in key
positions student leadership position. Really?
To get one of their own to be the corps commander,
the head yell leader and so forth. But that was
secret. Let's see.
We've already talked about the key ingredients of
being an Aggie and so forth. Oh, the Aggie ring. Was
there any kind of ritual in those days of what you
did when you got it? No, I don't remember any. But,
of course, different outfits would have
different rituals, I guess. All right. Three
other things to mention. One of them. If you have
any papers, any stuff you have saved, that you ever
wanted to part with, I beg you, please give it to the
A&M Archives in the Cushing Library. If this is any
letters, any memorabilia, any notes, any
photographs that you want to part with, that's the
place where it would be preserved. Okay, next one.
Let's make believe that somebody walks up to you
and gives you a million dollar check with only one
requirement. you must give it to texas a m but you
decide what would be done with it if you were to give
a million dollars to a m what would you want it to be
used for
what good what good part of a m would be most
important to you
well it has to be the faculty i think i can't i don't
know it really I thought about it. It's disturbing
about the core. If you notice that graph that was in
the newspaper this week, well, you see what's
going to happen. I mean, it's really because
you've only got 400 or 500 in the freshman and
sophomore class, and I don't see how you're going
to, I feel like the core's kind of archaic. And
almost every one of those freshmen has a
scholarship. I will add, that's what they've got
to do, of course, to get them. And so many of them are
dropping out after the first two years now. After
two years? Well, that's okay. I think it's fine
what they're doing. It's a good image for the
thing, but I'm afraid the people at a distance that
see the football games think this is what we are.
Oh, yes. Mm-hmm. Okay, last question. What
feelings do you hold in your heart for Texas A&M
now? Now?
Well, I'm very fond of my whole experience.
Not as much as anything living here. And seeing old
Aggies coming back when they retire, moving here,
and...
It's just so unique because, of course, my wife
taught for 32 years. Always students show up of
hers. I don't see hardly any of mine because
they're all scattered. But I don't know.
What was your question again? What feelings do you
have for Texas A&M in your heart? Just a great
fondness for it, of course. That's the best thing I
can say. There's not a single thing about my life
that I would want to do differently. That's what
I've done.